README.md, before:

<p align="center">
	<a href="https://github.com/opensumi/core"><img src="https://img.alicdn.com/imgextra/i2/O1CN01dqjQei1tpbj9z9VPH_!!6000000005951-55-tps-87-78.svg" width="150" /></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/opensumi/core/actions/workflows/ci.yml">
    <img src="https://github.com/opensumi/core/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opensumi/ide-core-browser">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@opensumi/ide-core-common.svg" alt="npm version" >
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/opensumi/core/blob/master/LICENSE.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@opensumi/ide-core-common.svg" alt="license">
  </a>
  <a href="https://cla-assistant.io/opensumi/core"><img src="https://cla-assistant.io/readme/badge/opensumi/core" alt="CLA assistant" /></a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/opensumi/core">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/opensumi/core/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=07JAPLU957" alt="Test Coverage">
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">OpenSumi</h1>

A framework helps you quickly build Cloud or Desktop IDE products.

![perview](https://img.alicdn.com/imgextra/i2/O1CN018JorOL1oWlLmbzGv0_!!6000000005233-2-tps-2844-1796.png)

English | [简体中文](./README-zh_CN.md)

## Quick start

> if you are using npm@^7 or higher，please use `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`

```bash
$ npm install
$ npm run init
$ npm run download-extension  # Optional
$ npm run start
```

By default, the `tools/workspace` folder in the project would be opened, or you can run the project by specifying the directory in the following way:

```bash
$ MY_WORKSPACE={local_path} npm run start
```

Usually, you may still encounter some system-level environment dependencies. You can visit [Development Environment Preparation](./CONTRIBUTING.md#development-environment-preparation) to see how to install the corresponding environment dependencies.

## Contributing

Read through our [contributing guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our submission process, coding rules and more.

## Want to Help?

Want to report a bug, contribute some code, or improve documentation? Excellent! Read up on our [guidelines](<(./CONTRIBUTING.md)>) for contributing and then check out one of our issues labeled as help wanted or good first issue.

## License

Copyright (c) 2019-present Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Ant Group Co. Ltd.

Licensed under the [MIT](LICENSE) license.

Commit message:

chore: add DingTalk QRCode on README

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
	<a href="https://github.com/opensumi/core"><img src="https://img.alicdn.com/imgextra/i2/O1CN01dqjQei1tpbj9z9VPH_!!6000000005951-55-tps-87-78.svg" width="150" /></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/opensumi/core/actions/workflows/ci.yml">
    <img src="https://github.com/opensumi/core/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opensumi/ide-core-browser">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@opensumi/ide-core-common.svg" alt="npm version" >
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/opensumi/core/blob/master/LICENSE.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@opensumi/ide-core-common.svg" alt="license">
  </a>
  <a href="https://cla-assistant.io/opensumi/core"><img src="https://cla-assistant.io/readme/badge/opensumi/core" alt="CLA assistant" /></a>
  <a href="https://codecov.io/gh/opensumi/core">
    <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/opensumi/core/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=07JAPLU957" alt="Test Coverage">
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">OpenSumi</h1>

A framework helps you quickly build Cloud or Desktop IDE products.

![perview](https://img.alicdn.com/imgextra/i2/O1CN018JorOL1oWlLmbzGv0_!!6000000005233-2-tps-2844-1796.png)

English | [简体中文](./README-zh_CN.md)

## Quick start

> if you are using npm@^7 or higher，please use `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`

```bash
$ npm install
$ npm run init
$ npm run download-extension  # Optional
$ npm run start
```

By default, the `tools/workspace` folder in the project would be opened, or you can run the project by specifying the directory in the following way:

```bash
$ MY_WORKSPACE={local_path} npm run start
```

Usually, you may still encounter some system-level environment dependencies. You can visit [Development Environment Preparation](./CONTRIBUTING.md#development-environment-preparation) to see how to install the corresponding environment dependencies.

## Contributing

Read through our [contributing guidelines](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our submission process, coding rules and more.

## Want to Help?

Want to report a bug, contribute some code, or improve documentation? Excellent! Read up on our [guidelines](<(./CONTRIBUTING.md)>) for contributing and then check out one of our issues labeled as help wanted or good first issue.

## DingTalk Group

use [DingTalk](https://www.dingtalk.com/) APP scan or join the group with the number `34355491`

![dingtalk](https://img.alicdn.com/imgextra/i1/O1CN01k3gCmL1HWPjLchVv7_!!6000000000765-0-tps-200-199.jpg)

## License

Copyright (c) 2019-present Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Ant Group Co. Ltd.

Licensed under the [MIT](LICENSE) license.
